In this video I'll cover replication modes for broadcast.
Unknown unicast and multicast traffic or as we call it bumm traffic.
So these replication modes are used to replicate broadcast unknown unicast and multicast traffic to
different ESX hosts and this is special traffic.
For example we have broadcast traffic broadcast traffic is sent to all machines on a layer 2 segment
I had a good example of a broadcast our request.
Now unknown unicast traffic results from a virtual switch or a physical switch.
Not knowing the MAC address of the device that is trying to connect to.
That's how switches learned to MAC addresses.
And we also have multicast traffic which is traffic that's sent to selective destinations.
If you're not familiar with these traffic types I'd definitely recommend going back and watching the
introductory video I do on bump traffic and it's also part of this course.
So as this multiday destination traffic is generated it needs to be replicated to all of the Vieuxtemps
of the duplicable hosts that are connected to those logical switches where this multi destination traffic
is coming from.
And at times these v taps might potentially be on different layer three networks known as VX LAN segments
or VTX segments.
Maybe there's a router between a couple of my hosts and the result is that I have taps that are on different
networks.
So let's start by breaking down this diagram a little bit.
Here we see two virtual machines.
VM one and VM file and each virtual machine is on an ESX host it's connected to a logical switch.
And there's a tap on each host as well.
So if any traffic needs to go from VM 1 to VM 5 for example it's going to flow through this V tap get
via actually an encapsulated flow over the underlying network get decapitated by the receiving the tap
before it ever reaches virtual machine five.
So let's walk through this process.
Let's say that VM one wants to ping VM five and let's assume that VM ones are table doesn't have an
entry for VM 5.
So VM one knows the IP address VM five but not the Mac address.
So what happens in this case well in this case.
VM one is going to generate an ARP request and an our request is a layer to broadcast.
So we're talking about broadcast traffic now and that's one of our three types of traffic that we talked
about in our bumm traffic right broadcast.
Unknown unicast and multicast
So one VM one generates that broadcast.
It's a layer to broadcast and it needs to be received by everything connected to this logical switch.
Now there could be 50 Reems on each host that need to get this broadcast.
There could be 50 hosts that need to get this broadcast.
Wouldn't it be nice if our virtual machine could just send one copy of that broadcast that would arrive
at the tap and would be multicast it or broadcast it to the appropriate receiving the taps that are
part of that logical switch.
Well that's exactly what our replication modes are going to do.
So we're going to look at three different ways that this layer to broadcast or unknown unicast or multicast
traffic can get replicated to multiple receiving taps so that this layer to traffic can traverse even
a layer 3 physical network.
Let's start by identifying this concept called a proxy tap the different replication methods that we're
going to look at will all leverage VA Axton to move this bum traffic from host to host and at times
something called the proxy tap will be used to accomplish this.
So for example let's say that virtual machine one generates in our request and that our request hits
the tap.
Now the job of the tap is to ensure that that ARP request is received by every single machine connected
to a logical switch via five thousand one.
So what the tap will do is it'll encapsulate that ARP request inside of a VX LAN hatter and it will
transmit it not only to the taps on the local segment but in this case it's also going to send it to
a special tap in our remote tap segment called the proxy we tap.
It's easy to get that broadcast moved around within our own local segment.
But we also need to get it across this router and do something called the proxy tap.
Now what is the role of this proxy V-Tech
when the proxy tap receives that our request it will replicate that frame locally with it and own local
VX LAN segment.
So across this physical switch the proxy taps job is to replicate that frame locally.
And what this does is it reduces some of the overhead on the source.
VTEC right the source VI type is responsible for essentially setting that bumm traffic to all the taps
in its own local segment but it doesn't need to send a unique copy of that traffic to every V-Tech in
every remote segment.
The proxy tap is going to offload some of that work.
So that's the concept of a proxy VTEC.
And you'll see exactly how that's used as we start to dig into some of these replication what.
Another thing I want to talk about is multicast so and OS X handles replication of bum traffic in three
different modes multicast hybrid or unicast.
In this first example we'll look at multicast replication mode so multicast is kind of like a pay per
view TV show.
Right.
It's sent out once and everybody who is subscribed to it can watch it multicast makes sense because
the source only needs to send that data once.
And how many subscribers can receive a copy if I want to configure multicast replication mode.
I have to be comfortable with configuring multicast that my physical network I'm going to have to configure
IGMP and IGMP snooping on the physical network.
I'll have to create a multicast address as well.
But the benefit of this replication mode is it creates the lowest overhead and RV types.
OK so for example let's follow this through and see exactly how it works.
Let's say that virtual machine one generates an ARB request or that our request will hit the tap and
the tap will for that broadcast to the multicast address that we have configured.
It's an address on this physical switch
and the physical switch itself will then handle replicating a copy of that data to every pore that is
joined to the multicast.
So for example in this case there's a port that's connected to this V tap that's joined the multicast
and there's also a port connected to my router that has joined the multicast as well.
So it's the physical switches job to ensure that everything that needs to get that traffic is actually
going to get it.
Now the router will use something called protocol independent multicast to forward that multicast into
the remote VX LAN segment where the physical switch can then handle replicating that traffic using IGMP.
There is no such thing as a proxy tap in this multicast replication mode.
We don't use a proxy via tap.
Now real quick while we're on this topic let's talk about why people like to use this multicast replication
mode.
The primary benefit is the fact that our source VI tap only needs to send that traffic once right.
In other modes the source we type may have to send that traffic many times or it might have to send
a copy to all the local Vieuxtemps it might need to send a copy to a proxy tap.
Right.
In other modes it's less efficient.
And multicast mode.
There's very little overhead on that source VTEC it only has to send one copy of that bump traffic and
then its job is done and it's up to the physical network to ensure that all of the appropriate taps
receive that data.
Now hybrid mode is a little bit different in hybrid mode.
We're still going to have to configure IGMP snooping on the physical network.
We're still going to have to configure multicast in our switches but we're not going to have to configure
multicast in our router.
Right.
That's the big difference between hybrid mode and multicast mode.
We need layer to multicast but not layer 3 because we're going to use something called the proxy V-Tech.
So let's break down how this mode works.
Let's say that virtual machine 1.
Generate some sort of broadcast traffic.
Again it's an arm request and the ARP hits this V-Amp the V-Tech will forward that broadcast traffic
to the physical switch on the multicast address and everything that is joined that multicast will receive
a copy of that data.
Now in this situation this is purely Alair to multicast and I haven't configured anything in my router
to accommodate this multicast traffic.
So that's where my multicast is going to stop
and so my source of type actually has a little bit more work to do in this scenario.
It's going to send a unicast copy of that packet to our proxy VTEC.
And in this case the proxy we type is called that M tap when you want to make sure you have these names
straight if you're going to take the VCP exam so the M tap is a special type of proxy tap that's used
with hybrid boat
and the job of the tap will be to replicate that broadcast traffic locally within its VTX segment.
So when the proxy tap receives that unicast it'll send it out to the multicast address of the physical
switch and the physical switch will then handle replicating that traffic to all of the taps in that
local segment.
So a really quick review let's just talk through this process one more time.
V.M. one generates a broadcast the broadcast hits the V tap the tap is going to do two things.
Number one it's going to send that broadcast traffic to the multicast address of the physical switch
so that it can be replicated within its own local segment.
And it's also going to send a unicast copy of that traffic to the proxy via tap which will be responsible
for replicating it locally within that remote VX landside and
all right now let's walk through our final replication mode.
This mode is called unicast and the big benefit of unicast replication mode is you don't have to configure
any multicast settings in the physical network at all.
So in unicast mode here's what's going to happen.
Again assume VM one issue some sort of broadcast traffic or unknown unicast or multicast traffic.
The VTech receives that traffic and it's the job of the tap to then unicast a copy of that packet to
the taps within its local segment.
It's also going to you and the cast a copy of it to the proxy tap on any remote segments.
And what I mean by that is here we see we have some VI taps on the 10.0 1.1 network and we have some
the taps in a remote network.
So the job of the source via tap will be to send a copy of that traffic to one of the taps on this remote
network which will then use unicast to send a copy of that traffic to all of the local V taps in that
VX LAN segment.
So again really important for the VCP is to keep straight the names of these proxy taps and an unicast
mode the proxy type is called the tap
so in review we're going to use replication modes to get bomb traffic moved between VX X segments to
ensure that this bump traffic is received by all of our taps if we choose to utilize multicast mode.
We're going to have to configure multicast on the physical network not only on the switches but on the
routers as well.
Multicast mode is very efficient though.
So we has that benefit hybrid mode is kind of like half way in between.
Right.
It's going to within the local tap segment it's going to use Layer to multicast but to reach those remote
VX LAN segments it's going to generate a unicast.
So it's kind of like halfway between multicast and unicast right using multicast for some traffic use
is unicast for other traffic unicast mode does not require any multicast configuration in the physical
network.
It will send a copy of all bumm traffic to all of the local Vieuxtemps and it'll also send a copy of
that traffic to what's called a U tap which is a proxy tap existing in every other remote VX LAN segment.